# Readme

## Scripts that I have to write at some point

* Auto time zone converter based on NLP input

## Description of Repo
There are some random programs / scripts that I wrote just to practice working
with a language. The main languages that I work with are:

* Bash
* Python

Bash scripts are mainly for ricing and quality of life workflow automation kind
of stuff. Python is for... well literally everything. A whole bunch of these
are probably going to be me storing away the scripts / notes I wrote to learn
the scripting languages. I still sometimes use these when I forget certain
structures or how to do a specific thing I want in another language. Honestly
though nowadays, a fair amount of shell scripting is just asking Copilot or GPT
to write it the scaffolding for you and then debug it to make sure it works as
intended.

Like all my other repos , this is mainly a place for me to stash my stuff and
have backups and version control. And yet , even though I am the only one who
is going to look at this repo I still sit here writing this readme as if
someone else might read this. kek.

There are some incuded scripts here that I have not written myself but still
use. I have made some minor personal customization changes to these scripts.
Ideally if a person reading this is interested, go checkout the original repos.
I link them at the top of file if I have sourced majority of the code from
somewhere. The proper procedure is to probably fork the original repo instead,
but this is what I'm doing for now...

Examples of above statement :

Rofi Monitor Layout Changer
Rofi / Commandline Youtube Browsing

https://github.com/davatorium/rofi-scripts/blob/master/monitor_layout.sh

https://github.com/sayan01/scripts/blob/master/yt

All of the ones that I use will be in the README.md for the dotfiles repo.


## Perl

I cannot find / have lost the link to the original source of the woerterbuch
perl script. I have made tiny changes to the script to personalize it a bit ,
and some quality of life stuff but if he ever finds this page and requests me
to take it down I will.



